Let's introduce
The Noisy Channel Model of Spelling.
The intuition of the noisy channel,
when it comes up
throughout natural language processing,
is that we have some original signal.
Let's say, it's a word.
And, we imagine that it
goes through some channel.
And the idea was originally invented for
speech, where if you talk into a tube or
we go over some kind of telecommunications
line, and the word is distorted.
And so, what comes out from the original
word is some noisy word, and
we've represented that
here with a weird font.
But, in the spelling case we imagine that,
somebody mistyped the word.
So the channel is the typewriter,
or the person typing, or
the keyboard and at the end you get
a misspelled version of the word.
And our goal in the noisy channel model is
to take that output of that noisy process,
and by modeling how this channel works,
we built a probabilistic
model of this channel.
We can run all possible original
words through that channel and
see which one looks the most
like the noisy word.
So, the decoder will take
a bunch of hypotheses for
each one, run it through the channel.
Run hypothesis 2 through the channel,
run hypothesis 3 through the channel,
and we see which word looks
the most like this noisy word,
then we pick that as the original
hypothesis for the word that started out.
So let's look at that.
First, we'll introduce some probability,
and then we'll look at some examples.
The Noisy Channel is
a probabilistic model.
Our goal, given an observation x of some
misspelling, some word we've seen, some
surface thing we've seen, some observation
x, we'd like to find w, the correct word.
And we're going to model that
probabilistically by saying, we're
looking, the best word, the word that we'd
like to replace our misspelling with,
is that word out of the vocabulary
that maximizes the probability.
What probability?
The probability of the word,
given the misspelling.
So what word, given that we've seen some
misspelling, what's the most likely word?
The most probable, posterior,
probable word, given that misspelling?
And we're going to use Bayes Rule
to replace that probability.
So, the probability of w given x,
we're going to replace that with
P(x given w) P(w), over P(x).
And so,
we can also eliminate the denominator.
So, whatever word maximizes this equation
will also maximize this equation.
We're asking given a misspelling x,
what's the most likely word?
And since the formula for that probability
includes the probability of that word,
the misspelling x,
we're including that probability
in every w that we're considering.
So, if some w, let's say, w hypothesis 1,
has a greater probability than
hypothesis 2, by this equation,
it'll also have a greater probability by
this equation because x is a constant.
x is the misspelling that we're
trying to decide if w1 or
w2 is a better hypothesis for.
So, that means that the Noisy Channel
model comes down to maximizing
the product of two factors,
the likelihood, and the prior.
And we generally call this
term the language model.
And you've seen language models before.
That's the probability of the error.
Excuse me, that's the probability
of the correct word, w.
And this likelihood term,
we often call this the Channel
model, or sometimes the error model.
So, we've got two factors,
the language model and the channel model.
And the intuition is that the language
model tells us how likely
would this word be to be a word, perhaps
in this context, perhaps by itself.
The channel model says,
well, if it was that word, how likely
would it be to generate this exact error?
So a channel model is sort of modeling
that noisy channel that turns
the correct word into the misspelling.
Now this noisy channel model for
spelling was proposed around 1990,
independently at two
separate laboratories.
And the use of speech recognition models
like Noisy channel, came into natural
language processing right around then,
mainly, although not exclusively,
because of the work at these two labs,
at IBM and at AT&T Bell Labs.
And so, the examples we're going to
take for the rest of this example
come from these two important early papers
by Mays et al and by Kernighan et al.
So, let's look at an example.
Here's a misspelling.
The word a-c-r-e-s-s, so,
think for yourself for
a second what this could mean.
First, we're going to start
with generating candidates.
What are the possible candidate
words to replace this word?
And we can think of at least
a couple of obvious ways to do this.
One is, we're going to pick words
that have similar spelling.
So, words that have similar spelling
might naturally be mistaken for
the correct word.
And we're going to operationalize
similar spelling as having a small
edit distance to the error.
Or, we could pick words with similar
pronunciation, and there we're going to
pick words with a small edit distance
of the pronunciation to the error.
For the rest of this example,
I'm going to pick the first approach.
So, we're going to pick words
that have similar spelling as
our possible candidates.
How do I operationalize similar spelling?
Well, we've seen edit distance before.
And remember, with edit distance we talked
about the distance between two strings.
The minimal number of edits that
turns one string into another.
We defined an edit as an insertion,
deletion, or
a substitution, so any of these three.
For spell correction,
we're going to want to add a fourth
possible edit operation, transposition,
because in practice for spelling
errors we often transpose two letters.
And that version of edit distance is now
called Damerau-Levenshtein edit distance.
And it can be computed, again,
by various dynamic programming approaches.
So, let's look at the candidates
that our words within edit
distance 1 of our misspelling a-c-r-e-s-s.
So here's our error, a-c-r-e-s-s.
And here is different possible candidates.
So here is a candidate, actress.
How is actress turn into acress?
Well, the t turns into nothing,
so t was deleted.
So we have a deletion of a t.
So, a deletion of a t
turns actress into acress.
Here, the proposed candidate is
the word cress, the kind of vegetable.
So here, cress to turn cress into
acress we have to add, insert an a.
So here we had a deletion, here we
had an insertion, how about caress?
Caress is, to turn caress into
acress we turn a ca into the ac, so
we have a transposition of ca and ac.
The word could've been access.
Here we have a substitution,
this c turned into an r.
Or another substitution,
that the word could've been across, and
the o turned into an e.
Or, and s could've been inserted
to turn acres into acress.
But, the s could've been inserted
either here or here, so there's two
different ways where this source word
could have turned into this error form.
So, we'll put two rows down for
both of these possible insertions,
locations, positions.
So, I've just shown candidates that
are within edit distance of 1.
It turns out that 80% of spelling
errors are within edit distance of 1.
And almost all errors are within edit
distance of 2, so most algorithms
either consider just edit distance 1 or
edit distance 2, possible candidates.
In practice, we also want to
allow not just insertion and
substitution of letters, but
also the spaces or hyphens.
So for example, if user types thisidea,
we'd like to realize that there
should be an insertion of a space or
that the original space was, in fact,
deleted to produce this error form.
Or here, the original dash in the word
in-law was deleted to produce this error
form i-n-l-a-w.
We've seen candidate generation,
now we're ready to talk about
how to rank the candidates.
And remember, there are two factors,
we have the language model and
the channel model.
Now, the language model,
we can use any of the language modeling
algorithms we've already learned.
We can use unigrams,
bigrams, and trigrams,
we can use any kind of backoff algorithm,
or smoothing algorithm we want to use.
In practice, for very, very large-scale,
web-scale correction we're going to use,
as usual for web-scale things,
we're going to use stupid backoff.
But we might want to use smarter
algorithms for smaller kinds of tasks.
So let's look at an example
of a language model.
Here I've picked just
a very simple unigram, and
in this case we've computed the unigram
from the Corpus of Contemporary English,
one of many possible corpora.
And here's some counts, here's counts
of the different possible candidates,
actress, cress, caress, and so on.
Here's their frequency, and
normalized by the total number
of words we get a probability.
Here's the total number of words,
we get a normalizing, this count,
by the total count, we get probabilities.
So, here's probabilities of words
assigned by unigram language model.
How about computing
channel model probability?
Remember, the channel model also called
the error model or the edit probability.
And, we're going to take simplifying
assumption made by Kernighan, Church and
Gale in 1990, when they first proposed
the use of noisy channel model.
So, let's first see how to do that.
Let's assume that misspelled word x
has a set of letters x 1 through x m,
and the correct word w has a set of
letters, let's call them w1 through wm.
Now, the probability of the edit x,
given w,
is going to be some set of deletions,
or insertions, or
substitutions, or transpositions,
some set of edits.
The way that we are going to model that is
we're going to create a confusion matrix.
And a confusion matrix says,
for any given pair of letters,
how likely is a particular edit to happen?
So, for example, for
the pair of letters x,y,
we want to know how often
xy is typed as x, meaning,
how often is a y deleted when
there's an x right before it?
We're also going to keep a count for
insertion probabilities.
How often was an x typed as xy, so
how often is y inserted after x?
So, y deleted after x, y inserted after x.
Or, we'll keep a count for substitutions.
How often is x typed as y?
So we meant to type x, we typed y.
That's an x, y substitution.
Or our transposition.
How often was xy typed as yx?
So, these are just counts.
We'll keep a matrix of these counts for
every x and for every y.
And notice that what we've done
implicitly, is we've conditioned our
insertion and
our deletion on the previous character.
So, whether y is deleted
is condition on x.
We could have chosen the condition
on the next character, or
the character five to the left,
or some other thing but
we generally condition on
the previous character.
So, here's an example of a confusion
matrix for spelling errors.
The font is a little small.
But just to give you a basic idea, here's,
this is a substitution matrix
that I took from Kernighan et al.
So, here's the letter e, and
it's very likely in their data,
388 times to be substituted with an a.
So, you meant to type e, you incorrectly
typed an a, or you might have typed an i,
or you might have typed an o.
So, vowels are very likely to
be mistaken for each other,
or similarly, the letter m,
very often gets mistyped as an n.
So, a very high probability of m and
n being substituted for each other.
Next to each other on the keyboard,
they sound alike, lots of reasons for
them to be substituted.
So here is a set of our
confusion matrices, and
we just compute four of them.
One for substitution, and
one for insertion, one for
deletion, and one for transposition.
Now, I've shown you this table
comes from Kernighan et al,
but you could also generate
the table yourself.
So for example, Peter Norvig posted on
his website a lovely list of errors.
So these are errors taken from Wikipedia,
and other places that he
talks about on his website.
And from a set of errors like this,
so here, misspellings
of adaptable as adabtable, or
imature with only one m, and so on, so
various kinds of likely misspellings.
And from this list of errors,
we can get a list of counts for
every possible single-edit
error of how often it happens.
And from that we can build, so
we build our little confusion matrix.
And then, from the confusion matrix,
we can generate probabilities.
So, every time a particular
previous letter happens,
we look up in our insertion
confusion matrix and we say,
how often was xi inserted after
a particular letter w sub i-1?
And we divide by the number
of times wi-1 occurred, and
that's going to be the probability of a
particular insertion happening in a word.
So we can generate our probability
of our surface form for
each possible single-edit error.
Again, we are assuming a single-edit now,
so
only one of these happens
to generate our candidate.
Whichever one it is, we compute our
probability by just normalizing
the count of the deletion, or
insertion, or substitution, or
transposition by the appropriate count and
generate a probability.
So this channel model, for
example, for a word like actress,
where we generated a-c-r-e-s-s by
when we should have typed a c.
Excuse me, when we should have
typed a c-t, we typed a c.
So, the word had a c-t in it,
but the error had only a c.
So what's the probability of
deleting a t following a c?
And if we normalize the probabilities
in our confusion matrix,
here's the likelihood of this word actress
being realized as this misspelling acress.
It's 0.00117.
The language model, so here is
the error model or the channel model.
And now we can add in the language model,
I'll write LM.
So we have the channel mode.
How likely was ct to be
error-fully turned into c, so
t to be deleted, and
how likely is the word actress anyway?
And then we can just
multiply these together.
And, what we'll do is,
because these are very small numbers,
we'll just multiply everything by
10 to the 9th to make it readable.
So, this would be 2.7
times 10 to the minus 9th.
We multiplied everything
by 10 to the 9th here.
So, you can see that the most
likely word here is across,
with this particular channel model,
this particular language model,
the most likely word is across
But actress is also quite likely, and
acre seems a reasonably likelihood, and
the word cress, which is just a very
rare word, you can see is a very low
probability, and has an unusual error
of inserting an a at the beginning,
makes it a very low
probability correction.
So, noisy channel model likes the word
across as the possible replacement.
Unfortunately, we can see from the
original sentence taken from Kernighan et
al's paper, that the original sentence,
across is the wrong word.
The original sentence is "a stellar and
versatile acress whose combination of sass
and glamour...", and it should be clear
that this word should have been actress,
so across is the wrong word.
So just using a unigram model,
The noisy channel makes a mistake, so
let's look at a bigram model.
How well can we do with a bigram model?
We computed a very simply bigram model
just using add-1 smoothing from the Corpus
of Contemporary American English.
So now, the probability of actress,
given versatile,
just look at these three words,
ignore the rest for now.
Actress, given versatile,
that probability is point .000021, and
whose, given actress is point .0010,
so we'll compute those.
And now, let's do the same thing for
another candidate,
the original candidate that was preferred
by the unigram model, the word across.
We'll put across here instead,
as our hypothesis, and
we'll again compute the probability
of across in versatile,
given the probability of whose,
given across.
So, here's those probabilities and
you can see that the probability of whose,
given actress, is much higher than
the probability of whose, given across,
actress whose, is just a likely sequence.
And sure enough,
if we multiply these things out, and
the probability of
"versatile actress whose"
is a much higher probability than
the sequence "versatile across whose".
So, much higher probability, so the noisy
channel model with the bigram language
model correctly picks
the correction actress.
How are we going to evaluate these noisy
channel and other kinds of models?
There are lots of good
spelling error test sets.
Wikipedia has a list of
common English misspellings.
There's a filtered version
of that at Aspell,
there's a spelling error
corpus at Birkbeck.
Let's look at the Wikipedia list.
So, there's Wikipedia's list of
common English misspellings.
And, I've shown you here on this slide
some various other possible lists
that you can go look at on your own.
So, from these lists of misspellings
you would generate a training set to
train your channel model,
a developing set to test your model, and
then a final test set to see
how well your model works.
So, that's The Noisy Channel Model of
Spelling applied to non-real words.